Education is  a fundamental part of Spacesim, and is promoted both internally, within our club, and externally through our Elementary Education Programs.

EEPs are given by Spacesim members, and are exceptionally fun and engaging for both their audiences and presenters.  Demonstrations take concepts of astronomy, physics and space travel, and break them down for younger audiences in ways that are easier to understand, and make learning enjoyable.

Presentations can be adjusted to cover specific topics, and for children of different ages and levels of understanding.  These presentations are available for elementary school classes, day camps, and other private groups.  Below is a list of demonstrations we currently offer, including the average amount of time each takes.  

For more information, or to request an EEPs or planetarium presentation, please contact us ocespacesim@gmail.com.

EEPs Demonstrations:

Newtonian Physics:
In our Newton’s Laws demonstration, presenters teach the basic properties of motion: inertia, friction, and momentum.  Our hovercraft is frequently used to model motion in a frictionless environment, and how this affects astronauts working in space.  Audience members are encouraged to take part in the demonstration, and extra time can be given for hovercraft rides at the end of the presentation.  (30-45 min.)

Rocketry:
In our rocketry demonstration, presenters will teach their audience about means of propulsion, and the fundamentals of orbits.  A scale model of the Saturn V rocket is used to illustrate how the stages of rockets work.  (20-30 min.)

Phases of the Moon:
In this demonstration, presenters will teach their audience about why the moon appears to change its shape over the course of a month and the names of the moon in each of its phases.  Presenters also explain why some constellations are only visible at certain times of year, how the rotation of the Earth on its axis causes our cycle of day and night, and how its tilt causes seasonal changes.  This is an excellent presentation for younger audiences, who are beginning to develop and interest in astronomy.  (20-30 min.)


Planetariums

In the planetarium, presenters teach the names of several constellations which are visible in the night sky at that time of year, and show how to find them using ‘pointer stars’ found in the Big Dipper.  The presentation includes short lessons on the colours of stars, and the brightness at which we perceive them, based on their size, distance and luminosity.  Lenses representing specific planets can also be inserted into our projection to depict the movement of planets in the night sky, and to demonstrate retrograde motion.   The dome can be set up in a large room (such as a gymnasium, auditorium stage, or mid-sized classroom) with about 7 meters of floor space, and 3 meters of clearance from the ceiling.  Planetariums are easily our most popular presentation, and are suitable for audiences of all ages.  (45-60 min.)
